---
author: aliceliddell1
comments: true
date: 2013-02-12 20:59:15+00:00

link: https://leadershipinwonderland.com/blog/alice-why/
slug: alice-why
title: Alice?? Why??
description: While the question is simple, the answer may not be. To begin with, allow me to make a confession…I love children’s stories.
wordpress_id: 111
categories:
- childern's stories
- Wonderland Odyssey
- Writing
tags:
- Alice in Wonderland
- Alice Liddell
- business fantasy
- Classics
- Communication
- creative process
- Hierarchy of Organizational Needs
- Leadership
- literature
- management
- MBA Education
- Pinnacle Management Group
- PMG
- Rebecca Lacy
- SGES
- support
- Susan Goldberg
- training
- Wonderland Odyssey
- writing
featured_image: /images/blog/007.jpg
banner: /images/blog/bl43.jpg
---


_"She [Duchess] had a change of heart and thought the best tactic would be to seemingly appease Alice into thinking that she had tried to reason with Puppy to eliminate his bad behavior.  “Oh, but you haven’t heard me speaking with him so how would you really know?  Can it be you are making false accusations?  What is your real knowledge of the situation?  Perhaps you are being too hasty in your perceptions and you are jumping to a false conclusion?”_

Since Susan and I started this blog several friends have been brave enough to ask the inevitable question: “Why would you write a “business book” about Alice in Wonderland?”

While the question is simple, the answer may not be. To begin with, allow me to make a confession…I love children’s stories. I still love to read them even as a (supposed) grown up. My recent reading list includes the entire Anne of Green Gables series, The Wind in the Willows, A Little Princess (a great study in Emotional Intelligence), Peter Pan and Wendy, and several others.

Now if your exposure to children’s literature is comprised of the Disneyfied versions of the classic tales, you are missing a great deal. I grew up thinking that the Cinderella that I saw on screen and read in my Disney books was the _real_ Cinderella. Imagine my complete surprise (and horror) when I read the original in German when I was in high school. I was aghast that a step sister was so desperate that she actually cut off part of her foot. Blood in Cinderella??? Could it be that what I had believed to be the classic was only a sanitized version crafted for the Hollywood palate? I needed more information. So, I began reading other classics in their original form and found the tales were much deeper and more complex. Recent adaptations of Alice andmany other classic tales for film and TV suggests that  Hollywood must have discovered what I did years ago.

That brings us back to why we selected Alice. At the time Susan and I began exploring the possibility of writing a book together, I was reading Alice in Wonderland.  Both of us thought that writing a ‘business fantasy’ based on one of the classic children’s tales would be interesting.  As it turned out, Susan shared my fondness of Alice, so we began a closer examination about what she and her companions in Wonderland have to say about the ‘real’ work-a-day world.  As it turns out - they have plenty to say and we listened to them.

In our last blog, Susan shared an article in the Economist about adding depth to the MBA curriculum to prepare students for more real world experiences. What we have learned is that if you are open to learning,  there are lessons to be gleaned in some unexpected places. Perhaps those lessons take interpretation in order to apply them, but so too does problem solving in most other aspects of our lives. So, whether your plans for tonight include watching your favorite TV program or enjoying an interesting read, look a little closer for the subtext.  It just might shed some light on a weighty issue you are facing.

We would love your feedback! Please take a minute and leave us a comment. Thank you!!
